## Product
A product refers to an item that satisfies the consumer's needs or wants.

Products may be tangible (goods) or intangible (services, ideas or experiences).

* Product design – features, quality
* Product assortment – product range, product mix, product lines
* Branding
* Packaging and labeling
* Services (complimentary service, after-sales service, service level)
* Guarantees and warranties
* Returns
* Managing products through the life-cycle

## Price
Price refers to the amount a customer pays for a product.
Price may also refer to the sacrifice consumers are prepared to make to acquire a product (e.g. time or effort).

Price is the only variable that has implications for revenue.

Price is the only part of the marketing mix that talks about the value for the firm.

Price also includes considerations of customer perceived value.


* Price strategy
* Price tactics
* Price-setting
* Allowances – e.g. rebates for distributors
* Discounts – for customers
* Payment terms – credit, payment methods

## Place
Refers to providing customer access
Considers providing convenience for consumer.

* Strategies such as intensive distribution, selective distribution, exclusive distribution
* Franchising;
* Market coverage
* Channel member selection and channel member relationships
* Assortment
* Location decisions
* Inventory
* Transport, warehousing and logistics


## Promotion
Promotion refers to marketing communications
May comprise elements such as: advertising, PR, direct marketing and sales promotion.

* Promotional mix - appropriate balance of advertising, PR, direct marketing and sales promotion
* Message strategy - what is to be communicated
* Channel/ media strategy - how to reach the target audience
* Message Frequency - how often to communicate